Hello, everyone.
In this lesson, we will learn how to generate each HTML based on JSON data on the fly.
However, before we get into that, I first want to take just a minute or two to congratulate you,
because since you've completed the previous lesson, you can now say that you've worked with the WordPress
rest API.
So the question becomes, what in the world does that mean?
What is the WordPress rest API?
It's a term that we did not hear in the previous lesson because there were already enough buzz words
and phrases floating around.
And I didn't want to bombard you with yet another one.
But now that we're in a new lesson, I want you to know what the WordPress rest API is.
The simplest answer is that these different URLs that we've been learning about that return JSON write
these URLs where at the end of the root of the WordPress you are URL, you add on slash, WP, dash,
JSON, WP, V2 and then posts or pages or something else.
These new URLs make up what is known as the WordPress rest API and the entire point of the rest API
is that it makes it possible to work with WordPress data and content outside of the context of the programming
language, because basically every modern programming language today can send HTTP requests to use URLs
like this.
And also every modern programming language can interpret JSON data.
Now in our case, in this course we are using JavaScript, but you could technically create a native
Android or iOS application that communicates with a WordPress website through the rest API.
Or you could create a Ruby or Python or no JS app that communicates with WordPress.
So the rest API really opens up what's possible with WordPress because it makes the four CRUD operations
available from just about anywhere.
But what does that mean?
What is CRUD?
KRudd is an acronym that stands for Create, Read, Update and Delete.
Now, at this point in the course, we've only learned about the R in crud when it comes to the rest
API R stands for read, which is just another way of saying load.
So for example, in our previous lesson we learned how to use query to send off a request to this U.
URL, and our goal was to read or load JSON data.
Right.
We wanted to read in information about existing posts.
However, believe it or not, the rest API Urals can actually be used to create brand new posts or update
existing posts.
For example, if you wanted to change the title of an existing post, or we can even use these URLs
to delete an existing post.
Now, again, in the case of a search, which is what we are currently building, we only need the R
in crud, right?
We only need to read or lodin content.
But don't worry, a bit later on in the course, we will indeed learn how to create new posts and update
or delete existing posts through the rest API.
By the end of this course, we will cover all four bases of the CRUD acronym, but let's not get ahead
of ourselves.
So right now, let's stay focused on building our live search results feature.
Now, before we get started and jump into the action for this lesson, I just have one final note for
you.
So, yes, we are going to learn a lot about the rest API throughout this course.
But I do want you to be aware of the official WordPress documentation on the rest API.
Now, of course, the luxury of the video, of course, that you're watching right now is that you don't
need to come to this documentation and study everything.
Right.
My job is to make this easy to understand.
But I do want this to be on your radar, because this is from the official source, right?
This is WordPress dot org.
This resource contains everything you could ever want to know about the rest API.
OK, now, having said all of this, let's jump right back into the action and let's learn how to generate
each HTML based on the incoming JSON data for our search results.
So right now, let's jump into our text editor and in our theme folder, let's go into the JavaScript
modules folder and open up search JS and let's scroll down to our method that is named Get Results.
Remember, this is the method we created in the previous lesson that sends out a request to this you
URL that is powered by the WordPress rest API and then once this.
URL or the WordPress server has a chance to respond.
Then this line of code will run and remember, just as a test, we were creating an annoying alert pop
up message that looked inside the array of the incoming JSON data and then output the title property.
So as of right now, if I open up the overlay and search for Buyology, we see a pop up with the title
of a post from the search results.
But that's not what we actually want.
We don't want to create a pop up.
We want to display the results as HTML.
Right.
We want to replace the div with this spinner loader icon to contain the results.
So back in our code, let's delete this alert line that creates that pop up message and instead let's
try to edit the HTML of this results.
Div.
You might remember that we have a property that belongs to our object named results div so we can say
this dot results div and then we can use the query method named HTML to adjust its markup.
So just as a test we could say immagine results here.
But before I go ahead and save this, I need to take care of an issue that has to do with this keyword
because within the body of this anonymous function, remember, if I scroll over to the right, this
is the callback function that will run once the euro and server has had a chance to respond anyways,
within that function, that anonymous function, the this keyword is going to point towards the JSON
method because that's what executed the function.
So the question becomes, what can we do so that on this line of code, the this keyword still points
towards our main search object?
Well, there are two main ways of achieving that.
The first is to just use binde like we've been doing all along.
Right.
So if I scroll to the right, this anonymous inline function definition begins right here and it ends
down here with this curly bracket.
So just like we've done before, right after the mention of a function, we can just say dot bind this.
So that's our first option.
But let me actually delete this behind this.
So I'm just deleting from the period that we just added to the end of the bind this parentheses.
So let me put that back in place.
And I want to show you a second way of handling this.
So if I scroll over to the right, whenever you create an anonymous inline function like this, write
a function that doesn't have a name.
We can use an alternative JavaScript syntax, which is commonly called an E six arrow function.
So let me show you what we can do instead of saying function and then parentheses with our parameter,
we can delete that and instead just type out the name of a parameter that you want.
And then instead of spelling out the word function, we can just say equal sign greater than smooshed
together to create this symbol.
And this is what we call an arrow function.
And the nice thing about this is that it does not change the value of this key word.
So when this code runs, this will still be pointing towards our main object.
So we are in business.
So if I go ahead and save that, give it a test.
If I search for award, perfect.
We see immagine results here.
So now instead of this placeholder text, let's output the real deal.
So when we are modifying the HTML of that div, let's delete this placeholder text and instead let's
imagine we want to output a heading level to that reads general information and then right after the
heading level to maybe we would want a bulleted list of the different results.
So an unordered list opening and closing and then within there we would have a list item for each post
in the results.
But right away you'll notice that writing HTML on one line like this is miserable.
When HTML is smooshed together on a single line, it's really hard to look at and work with.
Now, in the past we were forced to do this with JavaScript because there was no easy way of breaking
down to a new line.
For example, in traditional JavaScript, when you open up a string of text, if I wanted to drop down
to a new line, maybe after the age to notice, my text editor immediately throws the color red to show
me that something's wrong.
So in traditional JavaScript, to get around this at the end of a line, you could add a backslash and
that's OK, right?
So then you could just break down a new line whenever you want to.
So this is starting to look like normal HTML on different lines.
But who wants to go through the trouble of adding a backslash at the end of every line?
That's not very convenient.
So let me control Z to undo.
Now, luckily, in modern JavaScript, there's something named a template literal that will solve a
lot of our problems.
So check this out.
Let's completely empty out the parentheses for the HTML method.
So let's go back to just this, right?
We want to modify the HTML of this div.
And now instead of creating a traditional string of text using single quotes or double quotes, instead
of that, let's use a back tick.
So this is the key on your keyboard that's directly to the left of the one key.
And I'm not referring to the one key on your number pad.
I'm referring towards the left side of your keyboard.
So just get a back tick.
Two of them actually.
And in between them, we can now do basically whatever we want.
So let me show you what I like to do in between our two back decks.
I actually like to drop down to a new line and let me get the indentation to line up.
And now that we've created a template literal with the back text, we can just write good old fashioned
HTML in dropdown to new lines without any problems.
So let's create a heading level to and have it say, general information.
And then below that, let's create an unordered list.
And within that let's create a list item.
And within the list item, let's create a link.
Right so you can click on the result.
For now, let's just set the aircraft to be a hash tag as a placeholder and let's close out the link,
OK?
And then within the tag, this is what the user will actually click on so we can say click me just as
a test.
And before we save this, why don't we add a few classes to our elements just so styling is in place
and things will look nice.
So on the heading level too, I'm going to give it a class of search dash overlay, underscore, underscore
section title that will control the color and the font size.
And then on the unordered list, let's give that a class of link list and min list.
OK, let's go ahead and say this and test it out.
Open up the search and look for Buyology.
Cool.
Looks good.
So now let's just actually use our real JSON data for this result item.
So back in the code, instead of this placeholder title of Click Me, let's use the actual title of
the results post.
So remember that this anonymous function of ours has a parameter named posts and this is where we can
access all of the incoming JSON data.
So back in our Clixby area, since we are in the middle of a template literal, which was created by
our back ticks by default, any text that we type is not going to be evaluated as JavaScript code.
It's just going to be output onto the page as plain text.
However, if we do want to run a JavaScript expression right.
Or access a piece of dynamic data that lives within our posts parameter, all we need to do is this.
So if we delete this hardcoded, click me and in its place, let's type out dollar sign and then curly
brackets.
Now in this context, the dollar sign has nothing to do with J query within a template literal.
The dollar sign in combination with curly brackets is a native part of JavaScript.
This combination of characters tells JavaScript that what we are about to include within the curly brackets
should be evaluated as real JavaScript code instead of just plain text or string text like the rest
of this.
So within this expression, within the curly brackets, we can just say posts to start working with
that incoming JSON data.
And remember, it's an array.
So let's look within the first item in the array and then we are interested in the title of the post.
So DOT title.
And then let me open post man just to refresh our memory.
So for example, if someone searches for Buyology, this JSON data will be the result.
And notice that the title property is an object itself that contains an inappropriately property named
rendered, and that's where the title lives.
So back in our code, let's look inside the title property for rendered.
OK, let's go ahead and save this and test it out.
So if I search for biology, perfect.
There we see the title of the resulting post.
But if I click on this link, nothing happens.
And that's because we did not fill in the address value.
So let's do that now.
Let's just delete that placeholder hash tag.
And then instead of just plain text, we want to evaluate a little bit of JavaScript.
So dollar sign curly brackets, OK, and then let's just look inside our JSON data for the first item
in the array and then in postmen, you'll notice that there's.
A property named Linc and that contains the permalink, so within our code, once we are looking at
that first item in the array, let's just say dot link and that will grab the Eurail property.
So let's save that.
And now if I search for Buyology again, there's the link.
And if I click on it, it actually takes me to that post.
And that's great.
But what about search terms that we know will return multiple results?
So, for example, if I search for lorem as in lorem ipsum, I have at least four or five blog posts
that contain this word.
However, we only see one result item here because our code is hard coded to only work with the first
item in the resulting array.
So for example, in Postman, if I perform a search for Borum in the results, you can see that there
are four objects, right, for blog posts.
So let's learn how to write code in the JavaScript of our template.
Literal to loop through an array.
Right.
We want to do something once for each item in the array.
Now before we worry about working with the actual post objects, why don't we do this?
So follow along and type this out with me right above this line where we are editing the HTML for the
div.
Right above that.
Let's create a test array so far for variable and we could name it whatever, but let's name it test
array and let's set it to an array that just contains red, orange, yellow.
OK, and let's imagine that within our bulleted list we want to create a list item for each one of these
items.
So down here, let's actually delete this list item.
So now we've just got an empty unordered list.
And let me show you a neat way that we can loop through an array within a template literal.
So to begin an expression, we use dollar sign curly brackets and then let's just type out the name
of the array.
So the name of the variable is test array.
And in JavaScript, every array has access to a method named map and map can be used to create a new
version of the array.
Now within the parentheses for MAP, it wants us to give it a function that it will run once for each
item in the array.
Now, instead of referencing another function, why don't we just create an anonymous inline function
right here and let's actually use the shorthand arrow function syntax.
So let's give ourselves a parameter named item.
You could choose any parameter name you want and then the arrow symbol and then normally you would create
curly brackets to create a body of the function.
But if you write it all on one line, you don't even need the curly brackets.
So for each item in this array, let's just do this.
Let's create a template literal within the context of our map method and we just want to create a list
item for each one.
And inside the list item, let's use this expression combo, the item.
So this would be a list item and then this would get substituted with the value of red and then the
value of orange and yellow.
So with the map method, here we are creating a new version of the array that uses list items.
But when the template literal tries to output the array, it's still going to include commas in between
each item.
So what we can do is right after the map method is right after this closing parentheses here, you can
say DOT join and in JavaScript join is how you can convert an array to a simple string.
Now, within the parentheses, if we said Dasch or X, that will be placed in between each item.
But if we just include a blank quotation, there won't be anything placed in between each item when
they get converted to a string.
So if we go ahead and save this perfect, we see a list item for each one of the values in the array.
So now all we need to do is forget about this test array of red, orange and yellow.
Let's delete that line.
And down here, instead of working with test array, let's delete that and let's work with our posts
parameter that contains the JSON search results.
Right.
So each item in this array is a blog post.
So let's do this.
Let's output a list item and within it let's create a link.
OK, now the text that someone should click on is the title.
So let's use an expression and we can just say item dot title dot rendered.
And then for the RF value we can just create an expression and say item, dot link.
OK, if I go ahead and save that and perform a search for lorem beautiful, we see all of the search
results that's going to bring this lesson to a close.
Let's keep it rolling and I'll see in the next one.